Hello guys in today's lesson I'm going to explain to you how to install WordPress especially for those
of you who still don't know how to do that.
Unfortunately the information available on the Internet is very vague.
For example the vast majority of tutorials don't explain to you the best practices for installing WordPress
on both your local server and your web server.
So I just listen and going to make a point of explaining what in my opinion are those best practices
things that I always do to install my wordpress in the best possible way.
So let's get started.
The first thing we're going to do is visit the WordPress website which is on WordPress dot o r g.
So let's go ahead and click download Wordpress
and then click this nice blue button here.
Save the file onto my computer.
OK.
This is WordPress for point a point to maybe when you're doing this exercise of installing WordPress
you'll see another version this Wordpress is always releasing updates.
No problem at all.
Let's go ahead and open our finder and look for the file we've just downloaded.
Right click copy this file what you pasted on my local web server folder
in my case this folder is all my documents folder and it's called the docs.
The prince is here.
If I don't know how it changed his name age the dog's directory.
Just take a look at the document I've included on the previous lesson.
That document explains exactly how to do that.
For those of you of course who are interested by the way let's check in for Betty and my Secord servers
are running otherwise which will be impossible to install WordPress are going to do that.
I'll just open my zem control panel manager OS X
number to manage servers and start all servers at once.
Now once you unzip this find side folder that I'm going to create next the name of that for the ruby
W.P..
OK.
But of course yours don't need to have the same name as mine which is another one that I wanted to base
the zip file here.
And unzip it right here.
When it's finished we will eventually come up with a folder called WordPress.
But that's not what we want.
OK.
Since I don't want to install WordPress inside his folder so what I'm going to do jump into my wordpress
folder select everything
copy those files and move everything command option V in the row that this WP folder.
And of course if you are using Windows you have to cut and paste then I'm going to delete this WordPress
folder here since I don't need it any more as well.
And it's now empty.
So this is the default installation of Wordpress and these are the installation files.
OK.
Once we have all the installation files ready I'm going to do now.
Well the first thing I got to do is something that WordPress asked me straight away a database so I
need to create a database for the word resolution to take place.
That's very important and it's actually the great advantage of having a WordPress site rather than just
a simple way to me outside.
You have all this structure created by an entire community a structure on which the word breasting keeps
working to ensure that it has all the security you need to build your website your thing your plug ins
and you'll be using this platform that has been around for years.
So let's go ahead and access our ph be my admin mistyping local host slash ph be my admin and the steps
I'm going to explain can be used for both local server and for a remote web server.
Since all of the steps will not be very different at all unless for a couple of things for example you
have another web address to access your remote web server a different password maybe the name of your
server will change it from the local host.
That is maybe you will receive another server name from your hosting company.
And of course your username and password also be different.
But for the default installation of a local server the user is normally root and the password is empty.
I'll just click on database and choose a name for my database here and the name of it will be W.P. and
the score learn W.P. go ahead and click here to create it.
And you'll notice that the database the new database is now showing here on this site where it's ready
for me to use it and I want to open a new tab on my web browser and I can write the following localhost
slash W.P. which is the folder located on the page the docs directory remember where all the files of
the world press installations are.
I hit enter and wish to open for me the home page of my wordpress installation.
This is a welcome message.
And before we continue on Minnich know in advance the value of the views below the name of the database
we have already created the user name of their database which in our case is root password which is
empty server name which is localhost and the table prefix.
Unfortunately this little detail of that database prefix is what many tutorials on the internet don't
teach at all.
We need to change this prefix when we saw WordPress OK.
This is very important because it's not use have any website inside the Wordpress platform.
However secure it is.
If you don't do your part don't you agree with me.
Our first task them will be to change the prefix of the word press tables.
So let's do it now.
Go ahead and click.
Let's go.
Typing here.
The name of our database
as you know the username of our database is rude.
The password is empty.
And since we are using the local server the name of the database server is local host.
If you are on remote web server check this information first which you're hosting company.
Generally when you sign up for shared hosting services this information is sent to your e-mail and now
you're going to change the database prefix which is very important in terms of security.
As I told you.
But you might be asking why it's so important.
Well because by default what press comes with the pre-sex WP but everyone knows that even the bad guys
even the hackers know that.
So if you keep the prefix as W.P. you certainly lend a hand to sizing Vaders.
So let's change it here.
No it's not WPA anymore.
Let's call it for example W B C or S which is far better than just WB.
You can of course whatever prefix you want.
It doesn't have to be the same as mine.
OK click Submit
click install.
Let's move for the final steps of the installation process about having typing in the name of our website.
It will be anything this learned WB here hearing username I recommend that you don't use names such
as admin W.P. test or some other weaker options.
You can choose for example you'll name a stronger name one that you remember easily OK.
For example.
Is my name.
But again you can use whatever name you want for the password.
I recommend that you accept this password here or choose a very strong password especially in the case
that you are installing WordPress on the remote web server for security reasons of course.
In my case as I am in a local server I would just tighten one two three four five six seven to make
things easier even because it would be just a local installation.
But what is important is that when you work in a production environment inside a remote server you always
change the admin password.
Don't use one two three four five six seven OK.
This is only to make my work easier.
During this course as I've chosen a very weak password.
What you asked me to confirm the use of a weak password.
Here's another email and I can click here to prevent search engines from indexing this site because
I'm just creating the site yet.
So I don't want search engines like Google to index that site.
At least not now.
And finally I went to our press here and we should be good.
You
and here we are.
We're past this just installed.
If I click here.
Log in.
Enter my username and my password.
I will jump into the Wordpress dashboard
by default.
You'll see that if my head over to appearance seems where press comes with some native themes installed
the name of them are always related to the year.
The theme was created so for example 2016 2017 what you're going to learn in this course is to stop
depending on this WordPress native themes.
We will learn to create our own theme and be able to customize it throughout the course and is good.
So that's what I had explained to you in this lesson.
I hope you feel like you learned something new today and I'll be back in the next lesson.
We all began to understand how we were preserving works on the inside.
So I see you in the next lesson.
Until then unhappy coding.